_pages/about.md, before:

---
layout: about
title: About
permalink: /about
nav: true
nav_order: 1
subtitle:

# profile:
#   align: right
#   image: 
#   image_circular: false # crops the image to make it circular
#   address: 

# news: false  # includes a list of news items
# selected_papers: false # includes a list of papers marked as "selected={true}"
# social: false  # includes social icons at the bottom of the page
---

> **Title**: Modeling and Data Integration for Control and Optimization of Chemical and Biological Systems
> - **Date**: Saturday, 8th July 2023 (Full-day Workshop)
> - **Prerequisite Knowledge**:  Dynamical systems and basic optimization
> - **Learning Outcomes**: The participants will be able to learn theory for analysis of experimental data for developing dynamical models of chemical and biological systems. The participants will learn (i) to perform model formulations for chemical and biological systems using process models, cybernetic modeling, dynamic flux-balance analysis approaches, (ii) to perform structural and parameter identifiability analysis and parameter estimation frond data, and (iii) to apply the concepts in process control and metabolic engineering applications.

&nbsp;
# Outline of Workshop

Study of chemical/metabolic reaction systems is an interdisciplinary area of research involving understanding of chemical interactions using tools from  systems biology, chemical engineering, biotechnology, and chemistry. Models of reaction systems are important for fundamental understanding of molecular mechanisms, and cell functionality in chemistry and biology. Furthermore, for biological systems, models of microbial cells  are used for understanding and manipulating cells to produce desired products through metabolic engineering and synthetic biology tools. These models are also important for model-based process development and model-based control, optimization and monitoring during production in chemical and biotechnology industries. Hence, it is important to build reliable mathematical models of chemical and biological systems by integrating experimental data.  Advances in measurement techniques and process identification methods allow us to build high fidelity dynamical models of reaction systems. Kinetic modeling and cybernetic modeling approaches are examples of dynamical models of reaction and metabolic systems. While genome-scale metabolic models (GEMs) are commonly available  for different organisms including those currently used for industrial applications, building large-scale dynamical  models of metabolism describing the intracellular reactions in biological systems is still challenging. Extension of GEMs for dynamic simulations accounting for microbial regulation requires special techniques that enable integrating phenotype and molecular data, e.g., through the cybernetic approach. 

Identification of a reliable dynamical model of the underlying system for a given objective is a central theme in the field of system identification. Identification of dynamical models of chemical and biological systems  is an iterative process involving (i) generating informative data and (ii) fitting a proposed model (or a set of proposed models) to generated data. The process is repeated until a model of acceptable fidelity is identified.  The objective of this workshop is to introduce systematic approaches for identifying dynamical and steady state models from data and their applications in model-based monitoring, control and optimization of chemical and biological systems through interactive lectures and hands-on practices. 

&nbsp;

## Schedule & Materials

&nbsp;

| <font size = 5> Time </font> | <font size = 5> Topic </font>                                                                                                    | <font size = 5> Speakers </font>                                    |
| ---------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <img width=200/>             | <img width=200/>                                                                                                                 | <img width=200/>                                                    |
| 08:30 - 08.40                | Welcome and introduction to the workshop and speakers                                                                            | Nirav Bhatt, Manokaran V., Hyun-Seob Song, Sridharakumar Narasimhan |
| 08:40 - 09:15                | [Modeling of chemical and biological systems using first-principles models](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1oForYFsh2QvIfRysUTxc2tl_9579bnMD/view?usp=drive_link)                                                        | Nirav Bhatt, IIT Madras, India                                      |
| 09:15 - 10:00                | [Dynamic models of biological systems](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ozGhdxorX11rjJK1Fm9iIF-f_EaNd8gR/view?usp=drive_link)                                                                                             | Hyun-Seob Song, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, USA                 |
| 10:00 - 10:15                | Discussion                                                                                                                       |                                                                     |
| 10:30 - 12:00                | [Hands-on session: AUMIC - Mano, Simulation of Kompala model](https://github.com/hyunseobsong/aumic)                             | Manokaran V., University of Nebraska-Lincoln, USA
|                              | [Data Set](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1DbnTuJpwJ9cCIkfjH4tbAKWHHZM1r10E)                                             |
| 13.30 - 14:15                | [Structural and parameter identifiability of reaction systems and measurements](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1rqYqG5Qnos5omJp72GAGuLOT7W3pVqpY/view?usp=drive_link)                                                    | Sridharakumar Narasimhan, IIT Madras, India                         |
| 14:15 - 15:00                | [Incremental model identification for chemical and biological reaction systems](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1eOvOYpcB6r0snVmtUMBH7NoMz82qRRd8/view?usp=drive_link)                                                    | Nirav Bhatt, IIT Madras, India                                      |
| 15:15 - 16:15                | [Hands-on session: Incremental modeling and  state estimation](https://github.com/Wickkey/Dual_Degree_Project)                   | Nirav Bhatt/Sridharkumar Narasimhan, IIT Madras, India              |
| 16:15 - 16:45                | [Metabolic modeling for biotechnology applications: Parameter identification using AUMIC](https://github.com/hyunseobsong/aumic) | Manokaran V., University of Nebraska-Lincoln, USA                   |
| 16:45 - 17:00                | Discussion and networking                                                                                                        |                                                                     |

&nbsp;

## Important Instructions
1. Installation of [MATLAB](https://www.mathworks.com/help/install/ug/install-products-with-internet-connection.html) prior to workshop is recommended
2. Download [AUMIC](https://github.com/hyunseobsong/aumic) from GitHub and follow the steps for installation

&nbsp;

## Organizers

<div class="row row-cols-2 projects pt-3 pb-3">
  {% include people_horizontal.html name="Nirav Pravinbhai Bhatt" position="Assistant Professor" affiliation="IIT Madras, India" url="https://biotech.iitm.ac.in/faculty/nirav-p-bhatt/" img="assets/img/organizers/nirav.png" %}
  {% include people_horizontal.html name="Hyun-Seob Song" position="Associate Professor" affiliation="University of Nebraska-Lincoln, USA" url="https://bse.unl.edu/faculty/hyun-seob-song" img="assets/img/organizers/hyun-seob-song.jpg" %}
  {% include people_horizontal.html name="Sridharakumar Narasimhan" position="Professor" affiliation="IIT Madras, India" url="https://che.iitm.ac.in/sridharkrn/" img="assets/img/organizers/sridharan.png" %}
  {% include people_horizontal.html name="Manokaran V" position="Postdoctoral Fellow" affiliation="University of Nebraska-Lincoln, USA" url="https://in.linkedin.com/in/manokaran-veeramani-62b07968" img="assets/img/organizers/manokaran.jpeg" %}
</div>

---

Commit message:

Update workshop details and focus on Large Language Models for biomedical applications

_pages/about.md, after:

---
layout: about
title: About
permalink: /about
nav: true
nav_order: 1
subtitle:

# profile:
#   align: right
#   image: 
#   image_circular: false # crops the image to make it circular
#   address: 

# news: false  # includes a list of news items
# selected_papers: false # includes a list of papers marked as "selected={true}"
# social: false  # includes social icons at the bottom of the page
---

> **Title**: Large Language Models for Automated Assembly of Molecular Mechanisms
> - **Date**: Saturday, 30th November 2024 (2:00-5:00 PM) & Sunday, 1st December 2024 (9:00 - 12:00 PM)
> - **Prerequisite Knowledge**:  Python programming and Machine Learning
> - **Learning Outcomes**: The participants will be able to learn to train LLMs on the biomedical corpus and use them for different biological applications like named entity recognition, relation extraction and summarization

&nbsp;
# Outline of Workshop
The emergence of large language models (LLMs) has significantly improved our ability to process and analyze vast amounts of textual data. Scientific LLMs have demonstrated state-of-the-art performance in various biomedical uses, such as analyzing textual knowledge, small molecules, macromolecular proteins, genomic sequences, and their combinations. As the repository of biomedical text records continues to grow, BioLLMs would empower life science and systems biology researchers with powerful tools to run in-depth analyses of extensive textual data. The tutorial will focus on understanding different aspects of LLMs, training LLMs on the biomedical corpus, and leveraging these BioLLMs for different biological applications, particularly, molecular mechanisms. These mechanisms can expand current databases and provide mechanistic interpretations for high-throughput experimental data. The tutorial will also emphasize educating the participants about the limitations and concerns of LLMs while offering a way to align the models to avoid misinformation and biases. All codes and resources showcased throughout this tutorial will be openly and freely accessible, accompanied by detailed documentation and comprehensive training materials. In addition to familiarizing themselves with each resource, participants will learn how to continue learning and apply it to research projects efficiently.

&nbsp;

## Schedule & Materials

&nbsp;

| <font size = 5> Time </font> | <font size = 5> Topic </font>                                                                                                    | <font size = 5> Speakers </font>                                    |
| ---------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <img width=200/>             | <img width=200/>                                                                                                                 | <img width=200/>                                                    |
| 08:30 - 08.40                | Welcome and introduction to the workshop and speakers                                                                            | Nirav Bhatt, Manokaran V., Hyun-Seob Song, Sridharakumar Narasimhan |
| 08:40 - 09:15                | [Modeling of chemical and biological systems using first-principles models](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1oForYFsh2QvIfRysUTxc2tl_9579bnMD/view?usp=drive_link)                                                        | Nirav Bhatt, IIT Madras, India                                      |
| 09:15 - 10:00                | [Dynamic models of biological systems](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ozGhdxorX11rjJK1Fm9iIF-f_EaNd8gR/view?usp=drive_link)                                                                                             | Hyun-Seob Song, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, USA                 |
| 10:00 - 10:15                | Discussion                                                                                                                       |                                                                     |
| 10:30 - 12:00                | [Hands-on session: AUMIC - Mano, Simulation of Kompala model](https://github.com/hyunseobsong/aumic)                             | Manokaran V., University of Nebraska-Lincoln, USA
|                              | [Data Set](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1DbnTuJpwJ9cCIkfjH4tbAKWHHZM1r10E)                                             |
| 13.30 - 14:15                | [Structural and parameter identifiability of reaction systems and measurements](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1rqYqG5Qnos5omJp72GAGuLOT7W3pVqpY/view?usp=drive_link)                                                    | Sridharakumar Narasimhan, IIT Madras, India                         |
| 14:15 - 15:00                | [Incremental model identification for chemical and biological reaction systems](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1eOvOYpcB6r0snVmtUMBH7NoMz82qRRd8/view?usp=drive_link)                                                    | Nirav Bhatt, IIT Madras, India                                      |
| 15:15 - 16:15                | [Hands-on session: Incremental modeling and  state estimation](https://github.com/Wickkey/Dual_Degree_Project)                   | Nirav Bhatt/Sridharkumar Narasimhan, IIT Madras, India              |
| 16:15 - 16:45                | [Metabolic modeling for biotechnology applications: Parameter identification using AUMIC](https://github.com/hyunseobsong/aumic) | Manokaran V., University of Nebraska-Lincoln, USA                   |
| 16:45 - 17:00                | Discussion and networking                                                                                                        |                                                                     |

&nbsp;

## Important Instructions
1. Installation of [MATLAB](https://www.mathworks.com/help/install/ug/install-products-with-internet-connection.html) prior to workshop is recommended
2. Download [AUMIC](https://github.com/hyunseobsong/aumic) from GitHub and follow the steps for installation

&nbsp;

## Organizers

<div class="row row-cols-2 projects pt-3 pb-3">
  {% include people_horizontal.html name="Nirav Pravinbhai Bhatt" position="Assistant Professor" affiliation="IIT Madras, India" url="https://biotech.iitm.ac.in/faculty/nirav-p-bhatt/" img="assets/img/organizers/nirav.png" %}
  {% include people_horizontal.html name="Hyun-Seob Song" position="Associate Professor" affiliation="University of Nebraska-Lincoln, USA" url="https://bse.unl.edu/faculty/hyun-seob-song" img="assets/img/organizers/hyun-seob-song.jpg" %}
  {% include people_horizontal.html name="Sridharakumar Narasimhan" position="Professor" affiliation="IIT Madras, India" url="https://che.iitm.ac.in/sridharkrn/" img="assets/img/organizers/sridharan.png" %}
  {% include people_horizontal.html name="Manokaran V" position="Postdoctoral Fellow" affiliation="University of Nebraska-Lincoln, USA" url="https://in.linkedin.com/in/manokaran-veeramani-62b07968" img="assets/img/organizers/manokaran.jpeg" %}
</div>

---
